# Bee Simulator - 0/1 Knapsack Problem & Recursion Demonstration

Example polynomial-time **(𝑂(𝑛 × 𝑚))**  recursive algorithm used to solve the knapsack problem, using a fun bee simulation!

## Objective
Maximize the equal collection of nectar and pollen from flowers in a single trip, while keeping time and space complexity of the implementation as low as possible

## Constraints
1. Each flower provides a fixed amount of nectar
2. Each flower requires a fixed amount of energy to visit
3. The bee has a fixed amount of energy to spend
4. The bee can only visit each flower once
5. The bee can only carry a fixed amount of nectar
6. The bee must collect all nectar from a flower or none at all (0/1)

## Key Concepts
- Recursion
- Dynamic Programming
- Memoization
- Knapsack Problem
- Backtracking
- Depth-First Search
- Breadth-First Search
- Graph Theory
- Graph Traversal
- Graph Search
- Graph Algorithm

## Install & Dependencies
You'll need Python 3.12 or later to run this project.

Run the following to install dependencies:
```bash 
  pip install -r requirements.txt
```
(Or on Windows)
```bash
  py -m pip install pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
To run the simulation, execute the main script file:
```bash
py main.py
```

### Simulation Speed
The simulation speed can be adjusted by setting the `SPEED` environment variable. The smallest possible value is 0, which will run the simulation instantaneously. The default value is 1.

### Debugging
When running the main script file, set the DEBUG environment variable to `1` to enable debugging output.

### Tests
To run the tests, execute the test script file:
```bash
py -m unittest tests/test.py
```
<span style="color:red">**These tests evaluate the DP and traceback matrices against previously stored versions. If you adjust the code in a way so that the matrices have changed shape, the tests will fail. You must run the references file to update these. You should calculate the tiny_meadow flower set using an online knapsack tool or by hand and compare this with the table generated by Bee Simulator to ensure it is safe to regenerate the references.**</span>
```bash
py tests/references.py
```

## Uses
Additional uses of knapsack problem, especially real-world ones

## Next Steps
Ways in which the depth of the simulation could be enhanced, the complexity of the problem increased, or the performance of the algorithm improved

